---
layout: post
title: "A Engineer Manager's Three Key Reponsibilities"
date: 2020-01-31
categories: career_development
---

Some background information about me and the motivation to write this article: Since the late of 2018, I had taken over an engineering leadership role with zero prior experience in management. The team(s) which I lead had grown from single-digit-member one of a homogeneous function to a double-digit of multiple functions. The complexity had been increasing significantly due to size of teams, uncertainty in the business and etc. Regardlessly, at the bottom of heart, I like my job which I think is challenging and rewarding from both personal growth standpoint. The main purposes of writing this article (it could turn out to be a series of related articles) are 1) to help myself squeeze out more value from my experience by articulating my thoughts; 2) and wish someone could find something here at best informative by putting them in texts.

In this article, I intend to make it short by merely highlighting three key responsibilities and providing minimal explainations. By reflecting on my more than one year experience as an engineering manager, I summarized them in the below:

1. **Build long-term "vision" and road maps**: *(Disclaimation: "vision" is a big term and misused by a lot. In my humble opinion, there is a small number of people on earth having realy vision. Here, the term, vision, is used to stands for a long-term goal which is inspiritional and make target people excited)*. a) A good "vision" defines what a team want to achieve. The envisioned result carries value and aligns with your company's core mission. People who will work on it should be excited by merely thinking about it for its potential impacts and wealth of challenging tasks. We like to motivate people by allowing them work on something exciting, and giving them enough challengs to make them grow on continuous basis. We also want to use it as a tool to hire and retain people who share common goal. Ultimately, the vision justifies the existance of the team within an organization. b) a roadmap defines a reasonable path leading to the vision, whose main content is a series of deliverables and their relationships. One of characteristics of a good roadmap is that it is dynamic and ready to be adjusted in changed environment and new insights extracted from lessons learned in the process of executing by roadmap. The other characteristics is that a good roadmap is well balanced. It is both detailed enough to make people know what to do now and next, and adeptive enougth to be adjusted based on feedback from preceding steps. 

2. **Develop people**: The core asset of an organization in most industries is the collection of talented people. As the leader of a team, you are responsible for each individual's improvement within the team. A group of better people means more producivity and creativity to the company. How to develop a people? a) assign people to properly challenging projects or give them timely guidance. The right mix of projects should not collectively be too challenging which disencourages an individual from stepping up further in the future because of highly likely failures. They are neither too easy to push them forward by stepping out of the comfort zone. b) provide people with timely guidances along all stages of projects. The guidance can be in various forms: movitate people particular after some failures by helping them recognize goodness of their output, advise people with suitable actions to boost progress, offer different opinions to maximize learning for some actions and etc. According to invidivual's personality and level of maturity, different styles of guidance giving should be adopated. *(Experience sharing: Honestly speaking, one of my most delightful experience as manager is to faciliate the improvement of individuals and actually observe their growth partly because of my intended efforts.)*

3. **Improve yourself**: Being a life-time learner is a basic requirement of living in the current age. In tech industry, working at the mangment level normally requires us wear different hats. We have to keep mastring new skills (e.g. product development, new business, and etc.), polish our core skills by understanding the newly development in the industry (e.g. new approach in machine learning), spend time on managing teams (e.g. learn basic mangement skills and develop your own management "theory"), allocate energy to collaborate with business partner to draft business plan (most of time, we have to do substantial research to have solid grisp onto the new business). After all, you should be not distant away from acutally technique work too early. It means stopping coding, data analysis and system design and other main tasks as an individual contributor mainly does. Since, from the moment of stopping doing technique job completely, we will lose the ability to fairly evaluate the output of our team, and lose the sharpness in making judgement in deciding technical direction of the team. Good leaders should not dictate every decison or any deicion. But, we hsould lose the ability to evaluate people, their works, a tool, a technique. As a manager, our schedule are highly segmented and must remain responsive for management demands. They are the challenges to stop us from coding and conducting serious research. Regardlessly, we should deliver some development products (key anlaysis or ship a small feature) on regular basis for the sake of ourself and the engineering culture of the team.

In the above is my best summarization of key responsibilities which I think an engineering manager have at this time point. In the next few months, I will keep posting on regular basis (my target frequence is once per month) to share our thoughts on variety of topics. 
If you find something useful or have different opnions or whatever you want to say, feel free to leave comments below.